Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA) on the Iris Dataset
Date: August 2, 2025

1. Project Overview
This project involves a comprehensive exploratory data analysis of the classic Iris dataset. The goal is to understand the dataset's structure, uncover underlying patterns, identify relationships between different features, and visualize these findings. This analysis serves as a foundational step before any machine learning modeling.

2. Dataset Description
The dataset contains 150 observations of iris flowers from three different species. There are four numerical features representing the dimensions of the flowers' sepals and petals, and one categorical feature for the species.

Features:

sepal_length (in cm)

sepal_width (in cm)

petal_length (in cm)

petal_width (in cm)

species (Iris-setosa, Iris-versicolor, Iris-virginica)

Sample Row:

sepal_length,sepal_width,petal_length,petal_width,species
5.1,3.5,1.4,0.2,Iris-setosa

3. Analysis Performed
A series of data exploration and visualization techniques were applied using Python with the pandas, seaborn, and matplotlib libraries.

3.1. Initial Data Inspection
df.head(): Examined the first five rows to get a feel for the data.

df.info(): Checked for column data types and non-null counts, confirming no missing values.

df.describe(): Generated descriptive statistics (mean, median, standard deviation, etc.) for the numerical features to understand their central tendency and spread.

3.2. Univariate Analysis (Analyzing Single Variables)
Species Distribution (sns.countplot): Visualized the frequency of each species to check for class balance.

Feature Distributions (sns.histplot): Plotted histograms for each numerical feature to understand their individual distributions. A Kernel Density Estimate (KDE) line was overlaid to better visualize the shape.

3.3. Multivariate Analysis (Exploring Relationships)
Pair-wise Relationships (sns.pairplot): Created a pair plot to visualize the relationships between all pairs of features. The hue='species' parameter was used to color-code the data points by their species, revealing how the species differ across these relationships.

Correlation Analysis (sns.heatmap): Calculated the Pearson correlation coefficient between all numerical features and visualized the resulting matrix as a heatmap. This helped quantify the linear relationships between variables.

Categorical-Numerical Analysis (sns.boxplot): Generated box plots to compare the distribution of each numerical feature across the three different species.

4. Key Findings
Data Quality: The dataset is clean, with no missing values.

Balanced Dataset: The dataset is perfectly balanced, with 50 samples for each of the three species.

Feature Distributions:

sepal_length and sepal_width show a somewhat normal (unimodal) distribution.

petal_length and petal_width are strongly bimodal, suggesting that these features are very effective at separating at least one species from the others.

Strong Correlations: The heatmap revealed a very strong positive correlation between petal_length and petal_width (0.96). Sepal_length also showed a strong positive correlation with both petal_length (0.87) and petal_width (0.82).

Species Separability:

The pair plot and box plots clearly show that the Iris-setosa species is linearly separable from the other two based on petal_length and petal_width.

Iris-versicolor and Iris-virginica are more similar but still show distinct differences in their feature distributions, particularly in petal and sepal lengths.

5. How to Run the Analysis
To replicate this analysis, you will need Python and the libraries listed below. Place the iris.csv file in the same directory and run the analysis script.

Dependencies:
pandas

seaborn