Stock Price Predictor
📈 Project Overview
This project uses a simple machine learning model (Linear Regression) to predict the next day's closing price of a stock. It fetches historical stock data from Yahoo Finance, trains a model on this data, and then visualizes the predictions against the actual prices.

⚙️ How It Works
The script follows these key steps:

Fetch Data: It downloads historical stock data for a specific ticker (e.g., 'AAPL' for Apple) using the yfinance library.

Prepare Data: To predict the next day's price, it creates a target column (Next_Close) by shifting the 'Close' price data up by one day. This aligns today's data with tomorrow's closing price.

Define Features: The model uses the Open, High, Low, and Volume of a given day as the features to make a prediction.

Split Data: The historical data is split chronologically into two sets:

Training Set (80%): Used to train the model.

Testing Set (20%): Used to evaluate the model's performance on unseen data.

Train Model: A LinearRegression model is trained on the training data to learn the relationship between the features and the target price.

Make Predictions: The trained model predicts the closing prices for the testing set.

Visualize Results: The script plots the actual closing prices against the model's predicted prices to provide a visual comparison of its performance.

Predict Tomorrow's Price: Finally, it uses the most recent day's data to predict the closing price for the upcoming trading day.

📋 Requirements
To run this script, you need to have Python installed along with the following libraries:

yfinance

pandas

scikit-learn

matplotlib

You can install all the required libraries by running this command in your terminal:

pip install yfinance pandas scikit-learn matplotlib

▶️ How to Run
Save the code as a Python file (e.g., predict.py).

Open your terminal or command prompt.

Navigate to the directory where you saved the file.

Run the script using the following command:

python predict.py

📊 Expected Output
After running the script, you will see:

A pop-up window displaying a chart that compares the actual and predicted stock prices.

A message printed in the terminal showing the most recent day's data and the model's prediction for the next day's closing price.

Example terminal output:

Today's Data (2025-08-01):
Open      207.57
High      209.84
Low       207.16
Close     208.49
Volume    80698400.0
Name: 2025-08-01, dtype: float64

Predicted Closing Price for Tomorrow:
